---
layout: page
permalink: /page/gsoc_2014/
title: "GSOC 2014"
---

# M-Lab @ Google Summer of Code 2014!

This page contains the list of ideas proposed by M-Lab for Google Summer of Code 2014. For more information about GSOC 2014, see the [official web site](https://www.google-melange.com/gsoc/homepage/google/gsoc2014){:target="_blank"}.

# Mentoring Organization

The M-Lab Research Consortium is a collaborative effort dedicated to empowering users, researchers, and regulators with open, verifiable data on network performance. M-Lab works to create a space for scientifically sound network science -- the stats you see are stats that can be peer reviewed, replicated, and iterated via the standard scientific process. M-Lab was founded by Vint Cerf and a large consortium of academic and industry partners. Many organizations contribute to further M-Lab’s mission. The project ideas below offer Summer of Code students the opportunity to make a difference on a global project, working with eminent network researchers and engineers to make production-quality open measurement a reality.

# List of Ideas

## Improve mlab-ns reliability

M-Lab Naming Service (aka [**mlab-ns**](http://mlab-ns.appspot.com/)) is a distributed service based on Google AppEngine that ‘routes’ test requests from M-Lab measurement tools’ clients to the best M-Lab servers -- best being defined by different, client-defined policies. Selecting the proper server for a given measurement is critical to ensure that measurement tests collect robust and meaningful data. As the number of user requests being served by mlab-ns keeps growing, its reliability is getting more and more critical for M-Lab's infrastructure.

The purpose of this project is to improve the mlab-ns development processes and modify platform code to increase its quality and decrease future maintenance costs.

Additional points will be given to the student that can propose general enhancements/new features to the mlab-ns. After improving project development processes we will try to extend the platform with the proposed ideas.

**Expected results**:

- Improve unit/integration test coverage.
- Use continuous integration tools.
- Add static code analysis.
- Fix the bugs found when working on the project.
- Extend/clean-up documentation.
- Propose and implement other improvements/ideas.

**Knowledge prerequisite:**

- Python
- Google App Engine
- matters of QA

**Mentor:**Jakub Sławiński jslawinski \[at\] soldevelo \[dot\] com

**IRC**: [irc://#m-lab@irc.freenode.org](irc://#m-lab@irc.freenode.org)

**Mailing list**: gsoc-2014 \[at\] measurementlab \[dot\] net

**Useful links for mlab-ns:**

- Homepage:  <http://mlab-ns.appspot.com/>
- Design doc: <http://goo.gl/TlNZ3>
- Code repository: <https://code.google.com/p/m-lab/source/browse?repo=ns>
- Testing: <http://code.google.com/p/mlab-ns/wiki/Testing>