---
layout: blog
title: "M-Lab @ Google Summer of Code 2014!"
author: "Jakub Sławiński"
date: 2014-03-07
breadcrumb: blog
categories:
 - gsoc
 - open source
---

We are proud to announce that the M-Lab has been accepted as a mentoring organization to the [Google Summer of Code](https://www.google-melange.com/gsoc/homepage/google/gsoc2014) a third year in a row.

<!--more-->

The M-Lab Research Consortium is a collaborative effort dedicated to empowering users, researchers, and regulators with open, verifiable data on network performance. The project ideas suggested at the bottom of this post offer Summer of Code students the opportunity to make a difference on a global project, working with eminent network researchers and engineers to make production-quality open measurement a reality.

We are highly encouraging any interested students that would like to apply for the M-Lab related project to familiarize with the mlab-ns infrastructure, read the design document, look at the code and ask any questions on the gsoc2014 mailing list.

Please also remember, that the ideas at the bottom of this document are just a starting point and the project performed during the summer might differ from the original idea. Do not hesitate to apply with the brilliant project proposals, because at the end we will evaluate the possible benefits for the M-Lab. From the other hand please take into consideration, that most of the deliverables must be completed by the end of the summer.

In order to help you in being accepted by the M-Lab, we would like to share some helpful tips and advice for students: <http://google-opensource.blogspot.com/2011/03/dos-and-donts-of-google-summer-of-code.html>

## M-Lab @ Google Summer of Code 2014!

Below is a list of ideas proposed by M-Lab for Google Summer of Code 2014. For more information about GSOC 2014, see the [official web site](https://www.google-melange.com/gsoc/homepage/google/gsoc2014){:target="_blank"}.

## Mentoring Organization

The M-Lab Research Consortium is a collaborative effort dedicated to empowering users, researchers, and regulators with open, verifiable data on network performance. M-Lab works to create a space for scientifically sound network science -- the stats you see are stats that can be peer reviewed, replicated, and iterated via the standard scientific process. M-Lab was founded by Vint Cerf and a large consortium of academic and industry partners. Many organizations contribute to further M-Lab’s mission. The project ideas below offer Summer of Code students the opportunity to make a difference on a global project, working with eminent network researchers and engineers to make production-quality open measurement a reality.

## List of Ideas

### Improve mlab-ns reliability

M-Lab Naming Service (aka [**mlab-ns**](http://mlab-ns.appspot.com/)) is a distributed service based on Google AppEngine that ‘routes’ test requests from M-Lab measurement tools’ clients to the best M-Lab servers -- best being defined by different, client-defined policies. Selecting the proper server for a given measurement is critical to ensure that measurement tests collect robust and meaningful data. As the number of user requests being served by mlab-ns keeps growing, its reliability is getting more and more critical for M-Lab's infrastructure.

The purpose of this project is to improve the mlab-ns development processes and modify platform code to increase its quality and decrease future maintenance costs.

Additional points will be given to the student that can propose general enhancements/new features to the mlab-ns. After improving project development processes we will try to extend the platform with the proposed ideas.

**Expected results**:

- Improve unit/integration test coverage.
- Use continuous integration tools.
- Add static code analysis.
- Fix the bugs found when working on the project.
- Extend/clean-up documentation.
- Propose and implement other improvements/ideas.

**Knowledge prerequisite:**

- Python
- Google App Engine
- matters of QA

**Mentor:**Jakub Sławiński jslawinski \[at\] soldevelo \[dot\] com

**IRC**: [irc://#m-lab@irc.freenode.org](irc://#m-lab@irc.freenode.org)

**Mailing list**: gsoc-2014 \[at\] measurementlab \[dot\] net

**Useful links for mlab-ns:**

- Homepage:  <http://mlab-ns.appspot.com/>
- Design doc: <http://goo.gl/TlNZ3>
- Code repository: https://code.google.com/p/m-lab/source/browse?repo=ns
- Testing: <http://code.google.com/p/mlab-ns/wiki/Testing>