---
layout: blog
title: "M-Lab's Murakami Tool - Supporting Structured Research Data Collection from the User Perspective"
author: "Lai Yi Ohlsen, Chris Ritzo"
date: 2021-07-14
breadcrumb: blog
categories:
  - murakami
  - research
  - ndt
  - ndt-server
  - ripe
  - ookla
---

Many people know M-Lab and our TCP performance test, NDT, from running it in a
web browser. Perhaps the largest single source of NDT tests comes from its
integration by the Google Search team. While M-Lab is known for the large volume
of crowdsourced test data resulting from people running our tests, over the past
few years we’ve developed new ways to run our tests and open source Internet
measurement tests from other platforms using a tool we’ve called
Murakami.<!--more-->

[Murakami][murakami] is a software program that runs automated measurements from
a computer attached to a network. Developed as part of our involvement in
“[Measuring Library Broadband Networks for the National Digital
Platform][mlbn],” a grant (award #[LG-71-18-0110-18][imls]) from the Institute
of Museum and Library Services (IMLS) National Leadership Grant for Libraries
program, Murakami enacts the best practice used by multiple national regulators,
academic Internet researchers, and commercial enterprises, of running Internet
measurements from a dedicated device, placed on premise in the network that
needs to be measured [^1] [^2] [^3].

[murakami]: https://github.com/m-lab/murakami/
[mlbn]: https://slis.simmons.edu/blogs/mlbn/
[imls]: https://www.imls.gov/grants/awarded/lg-71-18-0110-18-0

Murakami offers three key features: 

1. **Standardized data.**
   By running measurements from a standard premise device, we eliminate issues
   of self-selection bias that can plague analyses of solely crowdsourced
   data. Additionally, each supported test has a defined output specification
   providing a simplified JSON file containing the most common measurement
   fields of interest, and metadata fields that can be defined by the
   researcher. This feature standardizes Murakami test output independent of
   potential future changes in the output formats and available
   fields provided by third party test developers.

2. **Automatic, recurring measurements.** 
   Seeing measurements like upload and download speeds, latency, etc. collected
   over time is also more informative than a one time speed test, and Murakami
   enables that data collection. Test results can be saved locally on the
   device, pushed to a central archive on a self-maintained server on-site or in
   the cloud, or sent to a storage location in Google’s Cloud Storage service.

3. **Multiple measurement methodologies.** 
   Of course, M-Lab measurement services aren’t the only way to measure Internet
   service, nor should they be. A diversity of measurements from different
   instruments, measurements of different aspects of a connection, or different
   segments of the network path between service locations and the Internet are
   all relevant. This is one reason why while M-Lab has led the technical
   development of Murakami, the software doesn’t only include M-Lab tests,
   currently including both M-Lab NDT protocol tests, as well as a single and
   multi-stream Ookla test.

Murakami follows the model of other open source Internet measurement initiatives
such as RIPE Atlas, as well as dedicated devices and native applications such as
SamKnows, Eero, Roku, AppleTV, and others. By enabling multiple measurements to
run from the same locations and not being exclusive to the M-Lab platform tests,
we’ve focused not just on measurement but on improving the general understanding
of what different tests tell us about different aspects of an Internet
connection. Each measurement tool is orchestrated or controlled by a “test
runner” script that is registered in the software and made available for users
to configure. This allows a user to enable only the specific tests they’re
interested in running, and configure their options according to specific
measurement use cases. For example one set of Murakami devices might be
configured to run only Ookla multi-stream tests and another to run only NDT
tests. The modular test runner framework also can enable researchers and
developers to envision other measurement tools to be included in the software as
future test runners.

## Supporting Internet Research

Building on the success of the MLBN program, in fall 2020 M-Lab began supporting
researchers with the [Measuring Internet Resilience in Africa project][mira] (MIRA), “a
joint initiative between \[the\] [African Network Information Centre][afrinic] (AFRINIC) and
the Internet Society.” Part of [Internet Society’s (ISOC) Measuring the Internet
project][isoc], researchers are studying the resilience of the Internet in Africa using
a combination of measurement tools including Murakami and RIPE Atlas, as well as
other data sources and tools. You can learn more about the MIRA project and
their methodology in their [whitepaper][whitepaper], or register to attend their
[upcoming webinar][webinar].

Supporting the MIRA team’s use of Murakami has also helped drive new features, integration with other open source M-Lab software, and contributions from the MIRA team have filled in some gaps in Murakami’s data collection workflow and system monitoring.

[mira]: https://www.internetsociety.org/blog/2021/05/mira-project-to-provide-overview-of-internets-resiliency-in-africa/
[afrinic]: https://www.afrinic.net/
[isoc]: https://www.internetsociety.org/issues/measurement/
[whitepaper]: https://pulse.internetsociety.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/05/Measuring-Internet-Resilience-in-Africa-EN-May2021.pdf
[webinar]: https://pulse.internetsociety.org/blog/6051

## Supporting Measurements to Multiple Servers, Target Countries or Regions

When an NDT test is run, the software (client) by default contacts the M-Lab
Locate API service which provides the client a list of servers that are
geographically closest to the client [^4]. The Locate API is a service running
in Google Appengine, and uses latitude and longitude values in the HTTP request
headers provided by Appengine, which are derived using the client’s IP address.
If Appengine does not identify the client location, the Locate API falls back to
the most current version of the Maxmind database. While this is useful for a
general default, the Locate service also supports testing to available servers
in a target country or [ISO 3166-2][iso3166] region using a URL parameter. Internet
researchers generally find that measuring to multiple locations on the Internet
is helpful, for example to see the difference between measuring to a server
within the same country as the client and to a server further away. Murakami’s
default is to conduct enabled tests a specific number of times per day,
randomizing the time when each group of tests is run. But originally Murakami
only supported one NDT test to the nearest server identified by the Locate
service. To support MIRA’s interests, we added support to Murakami tests using
the M-Lab Locate API to use the country and region code URL parameters. A custom
configuration file allows a researcher to define server groups for each run of
enabled tests. The result is that one group of servers could be identified by an
array of country codes or region codes, and each time Murakami runs NDT instead
of one test a series of tests is conducted to each country/region in the array. 

[iso3166]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-2

## Supporting Both M-Lab’s NDT Servers, and Self-provisioned NDT Servers

MIRA researchers also wanted to [set up and maintain their own ndt-server
instances][ndt-server] in countries where M-Lab did not have its own production
server. This would enable them to test to both a server in the same country as
the client, and to one or more servers in other countries.

Running tests to a self-provisioned ndt-server was already possible in the
ndt7-client-go and ndt5-client-go libraries with the `--server` flag, but
Murakami’s wrapper around these libraries did not support that flag. Along with
adding support for multiple tests per run to different groups of servers,
support was added for `--server` to allow including both M-Lab and non-M-Lab NDT
servers.

[ndt-server]: {{ site.baseurl }}/blog/run-your-own-ndt-server/

## Automate Publishing Collected Measurements to BigQuery

Murakami does a nice job of posting the test results it collects to either your own SSH server or to a Google Cloud Storage bucket. From there test results can be loaded into a database for analysis, but this step wasn’t automated in our previous work with public libraries. The MIRA team developed a script that uses the `bq` tool in the Google Cloud SDK to post collected results to a BigQuery table. The script can be run regularly using standard scheduling tools like cron, Google Cloud Scheduler, or Windows. A daily scheduled job for example, can automatically post the previous day’s tests to a BigQuery table. MIRA is doing just this, using a Linux bash script using the bq tool within the Google Cloud SDK, similar to the example below:

```
#!/bin/bash
export GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=<path to keyfile>
today=`date +"%Y-%m-%d"`
for f in `gsutil ls gs://<GOOGLE CLOUD STORAGE BUCKET PATH>/ndt7*$today*`
do
  bq load --source_format=NEWLINE_DELIMITED_JSON <BIGQUERY DATASET>.<BIGQUERY TABLE> $f TestName:STRING,TestStartTime:TIMESTAMP,TestEndTime:TIMESTAMP,MurakamiLocation:STRING,MurakamiConnectionType:STRING,MurakamiNetworkType:STRING,MurakamiDeviceID:STRING,ServerName:STRING,ServerIP:STRING,ClientIP:STRING,DownloadUUID:STRING,DownloadValue:FLOAT,DownloadUnit:STRING,DownloadError:STRING,UploadValue:FLOAT,UploadUnit:STRING,UploadError:STRING,DownloadRetransValue:FLOAT,DownloadRetransUnit:STRING,MinRTTUnit:STRING,MinRTTValue:FLOAT,RTTValue:FLOAT,RTTUnit:STRING
done
```

MIRA is then using Google’s DataStudio tool to visualize the data, but other
researchers could use any visualization tool of choice. 

## Adding Murakami Monitoring Support with the Balena CLI Tool

In the MLBN program, and in the MIRA project, the [Balena.io][balena] platform was used to
remotely manage and update Murakami devices in the field. The [Balena CLI][cli]
provides an API for interacting with devices managed in your projects, which the
MIRA team is using to pull data about the status of each measurement device in
the field. Using the API, the MIRA team will automate the monitoring of the
devices and will alert the host when a device is found offline.

[balena]: https://www.balena.io/
[cli]: https://www.balena.io/docs/reference/balena-cli/

## Add RIPE Atlas Software Probe to Murakami

One of the most interesting ideas to come from our collaboration with the MIRA
team is the use of measurements from [RIPE Atlas][ripe] probes with performance
measurements from NDT and Ookla. While not yet completed, the MIRA and M-Lab
teams have begun testing the addition of the [RIPE Atlas Software Probe][ripe-sw] to
Murakami, allowing it to be an endpoint for RIPE measurements as well. 

[ripe]: https://atlas.ripe.net/
[ripe-sw]: https://atlas.ripe.net/docs/software-probe/

## Summary

It’s been great to support the MIRA team’s research by developing additional features and tools to support premise-based measurements with Murakami. We’re looking forward to seeing the results of their research, and continuing to support the ecosystem of open source tools to collect and analyze measurements from various platforms and tests.

## Future Development & Collaboration

The development of Murakami was made possible by the support of the Institute of Museum Libraries and Services, as part of our involvement in “Measuring Library Broadband Networks for the National Digital Platform,” a grant (award #LG-71-18-0110-18). If you are interested in using Murakami for your own research and want to ensure the continued development of the tool, please consider [contributing to the repository][contrib] or [making a donation to the M-Lab project][contribute]. If you are interested in a collaboration similar to the one with the MIRA team, please reach out to [laiyi@measurementlab.net](mailto:laiyi@measurementlab.net). 

Like all M-Lab tools and services, Murakami is built using open source code. If you are interested in contributing to the future of Murakami, we welcome proposals and donations. 

[contrib]: https://github.com/m-lab/murakami
[contribute]: https://www.measurementlab.net/contribute/#donate-to-m-lab

<hr style="width:200px;" id="footnotes">

[^1]: Federal Communications Commission. Measuring Fixed Broadband - Measuring
	Broadband America Program.
    https://www.fcc.gov/general/measuring-broadband-america-measuring-fixed-broadband

[^2]: Ofcom. UK home broadband performance, measurement period November 2020 - Technical
    Annex.
    https://www.ofcom.org.uk/research-and-data/telecoms-research/broadband-research/broadband-speeds/uk-home-broadband-performance-nov-2020
    
[^3]: Sundaresan, Srikanth; et al. Broadband Internet Performance: A View
    From the Gateway. ACM  SIGCOMM Computer Communication Review, Volume 41
    Issue 4 August 2011 pp 134–145. https://doi.org/10.1145/2043164.2018452

[^4]: Measurement Lab.  Locate API Usage. https://github.com/m-lab/locate/blob/master/USAGE.md 
