---
layout: blog
title: "Upcoming M-Lab Community Call discussing Measurement, Meaning and Purpose"
author: "Lai Yi Ohlsen"
date: 2021-12-06
breadcrumb: blog
categories:
  - community
  - ndt
---

At TPRC 2021, Dave Clark and Sare Wedeman presented “[Measurement, Meaning and
Purpose: Exploring the NDT
Dataset](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3898339)” which
raises relevant and timely questions about M-Lab’s NDT dataset and its potential
applications. Please join us Wednesday, December 15, 2021 from 11am-12:00 pm
Eastern for a presentation from the authors and a discussion with the M-Lab
community.<!--more-->
    
**Abstract**

The speed of a data transfer over the Internet connection is a measure of great
interest. It can directly influence quality of experience, it can serve as a
measure of equitable access, and it can reveal whether or not the speed matches
that which was advertised. One of earliest and longest-standing tools to contain
a speed test is the Network Diagnostic Tool (NDT), currently supported by
Measurement Lab (M-Lab). NDT, in its various forms, has been used across the
globe since 2003. There are billions of measurements archived by M-Lab, with a
rich collection of metadata for each measurement. This data allows an in-depth
analysis of each measurement, and potentially supports analysis across
aggregates of measurements.

The original purpose of NDT was diagnostic: why is my connection operating as it
is? However, the archive of this data invites its use in aggregate form to draw
conclusions about the overall behavior of the Internet. Such use, however, is
confounded by the fact that the individual measurements are triggered by users
for a range of reasons: simple curiosity, debugging, anger, bragging rights, or
automated checking of operational status (in some cases as often as once a
minute). NDT measures network speed, but it equally - if indirectly - measures
human behavior.

The goals of this paper are to explore the archived NDT data in order to provide
insights about how it can be interpreted; and to distinguish between appropriate
uses of the data from uses that may lead to unwarranted conclusions.

**Dave Clark, Senior Research Scientist at MIT's Computer Science and Artificial
Intelligence Laboratory**

David Clark is a Senior Research Scientist at the MIT Computer Science and
Artificial Intelligence Laboratory. Since the mid-70s, he has played a leading
role in the development of the Internet; from 1981-1989 he acted as Chief
Protocol Architect, and chaired the Internet Activities Board. His recent
research has focused on the re-definition of the architectural underpinnings of
the Internet and the relation of technology and architecture to economic,
societal and policy considerations. Specific research areas include Internet
security and Internet measurement.


**Sara Wedeman, Senior Research Consultant at Massachusetts Institute of Technology**

Sara Wedeman is a Senior Collaborating Researcher at the MIT Computer Science
and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory. With a background in psychology,
measurement, and technology, she held senior management positions in Banking and
Consulting, before founding, in 2003, one of the first  firms to focus
explicitly on the practical application of Behavioral Economics. Sara has been
working with computers since 1984 and is expert at conducting action research in
technology and the behavioral/social sciences, using advanced data analytics to
uncover actionable results. She has over 25 years' experience in Consulting,
having brought empirically-based guidance to technology and  financial services
companies, academic institutions, and others - including the NTIA's Broadband
Measurement program.

The conversation will be moderated by Lai Yi Ohlsen, Director of Measurement
Lab, a fiscally sponsored project of Code for Science & Society. 

We welcome audience questions, answers, challenges, and discussion. The
discussion will be technical but no familiarity with M-Lab is required; all we
ask is that participants review and respect our [community guidelines]({{
site.baseurl }}/community-guidelines/). 

If you have previously RSVP’d to our community calls, you should have already
received a calendar invite with a Zoom link included. If not, please reply
directly to this email. 

If you have not previously RSVP’d, but would like to attend, [please do so
here](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeHKN2MUP1IAReB8KNJM9jIdbazpaUQscdj0zZ5PbbO9K0fTA/viewform?usp=sf_link)
and indicate that you’d like to be attended to the “Internet Research” meetings.
You’ll be sent a Zoom link shortly after.

**Please note that our conversation will be recorded. If you attend, you will be
asked to give your consent to being recorded. The recording will be published
and distributed openly.**

If you have any questions, please feel free to reply to this email directly or
write to laiyi@measurementlab.net.
