---
layout: blog
title: "M-Lab Research Fellows - Spring 2022"
author: "Lai Yi Ohlsen"
date: 2022-01-13
breadcrumb: blog
categories:
  - fellowship
  - research
  - announcement
---

M-Lab is pleased to share our selection of Research Fellows for Spring 2022,
generously supported by Internet Society. The fellows were selected for the
merit, rigor, and feasibility of their proposed project as well as their
research's relevance to improvement for end-user Internet performance. Read
below for more information about the fellows and their proposed
projects<!--more-->:

## Control-Plane-Triggered Traffic Performance Degradation Detection | Mingwei Zhang

Mingwei Zhang, Ph.D. is an independent researcher working on developing data
analysis tools for Inter-domain routing data. He obtained his Ph.D. degree from
the University of Oregon in 2019, with his dissertation topic on the mitigation
of distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks. He also worked on several
projects on the security of inter-domain routing protocol and published papers
on top conferences and journals such as IEEE Transactions Networking. He joined
the Center for Applied Internet Data Analysis (CAIDA), UCSD as Internet Data
Scientist in 2018, and worked on several open-source data analysis tools as well
as inter-domain routing research projects. He is currently the solo founder of
BGPKIT.com, a software consulting company that develops open-source solutions
for BGP data analysis.

As an M-Lab fellow, Zhang will study control-plane-triggered traffic performance
degradation by correlating anomalous NDT traffic data with BGP information.
[Read the full project proposal]({{ site.baseurl }}/publications/research-fellows/2022/2021-mlab-proposal-zhang.pdf). 

## Localizing Neutrality Violations | Led by Zeinab Shmeis, supported by Muhammad Abdullah and Pavlos Nikolopoulos

Zeinab Shmeis is a fourth-year Ph.D. student at the Network Architecture Lab,
EPFL. She is working under the supervision of Prof. Katerina Argyraki on
detecting and localizing neutrality violations on the Internet. She holds a
M.Sc. in computer science from the American University of Beirut (AUB), and a
B.Sc. in computer science from Lebanese Public University. Along with research,
she acquired industry experience by working full time and as an intern at
different companies such as Murex Systems and Google. Her current research
interest includes: Internet measurements, neutrality, network tomography, and
statistical inferences.

Muhammad Abdullah is a first-year Ph.D. student in Computer Science at EPFL
working with Professor Katerina Argyraki. Prior to joining EPFL, he completed
his undergrad in Electrical Engineering from NUST, Pakistan in 2018 followed by
a master’s in Computer Science from LUMS, Pakistan in 2021. During his
undergrad, he spent a summer at CERN Openlab where he developed an event-driven
network automation framework for datacenter switches. His research interests lie
primarily in the field of computer networking; aiming to make the Internet more
transparent, fair, and accessible for everyone. His recent work on a radically
new approach for rethinking Web design for affordability and inclusion appeared
in HotNets 2021. His current research focuses on inferring network neutrality
violations by leveraging network tomography.

Pavlos Nikolopoulos is a postdoctoral researcher working with the Network
Architecture Lab (NAL) at EPFL and the Algorithmic Research in Network
Information flow lab (ARNI) at UCLA. He received his PhD from EPFL under the
supervision of Prof. Katerina Argyraki, and his MSc from the University of
Athens, Greece. Before that, he had worked for several years as a communications
engineer for the Greek Air Force. His research interests lie at the intersection
of network security, system design and statistics, with a focus on network
measurements, neutrality and transparency. For the past year, he has worked on
group testing algorithms.

During the fellowship, Shmeis and her team will extend the Wehe application to not only detect traffic differentiation practices but localize them as well. [Read the full project proposal]({{ site.baseurl }}/publications/research-fellows/2022/Shmeis_et_al_Proposal.pdf). 

## Inferring QoE from active and passive measurements | Sanjay Chandrasekaran

Sanjay Chandrasekaran is a 3rd year PhD candidate advised by Arpit Gupta at
University of California Santa Barbara. He earned his Bachelor's and Master’s
degree in Computer Science from Carnegie Mellon University, where he was advised
by Vyas Sekar.

As an M-Lab fellow, Chandrasekaran will be focused on understanding the
relationship between QoE and the metrics we can collect through active and
passive measurements. [Read the full project proposal]({{ site.baseurl }}/publications/research-fellows/2022/SanjayChandrasekaran_Proposal.pdf). 
